all right so a couple videos back I ask
you if y wanted an updated video on the
arrangement video that I did like 8 n
months ago something like that when I
uploaded that video and ask you that
question man y'all probably left over 50
comments asking me to do an updated
Arrangement tutorial so that's what
we're doing today man y'all make sure to
get your pens and papers and notebooks
out cuz y'all probably won't see another
updated Arrangement tutorial in the
following 8 months man let's get right
into it so for today's video man I
wanted it to be as raw as possible so I
didn't really prepare too much I wrote
some stuff down but not too much uh I'm
just going to be explaining my knowledge
my experience when rang and beats [__] I
think of and the way I think when
arranging it so I got a a bar Melody
laid out right here also laid out the
drums already so I'm just going to be
arranging it I'm not going to lay any
drums or Melodies down in today's video
this is what the melody sounds like by
[Music]
itself by the way for the people
watching who voted on my poll that I
posted on my Community page a few days
back yall know that I'm working on my
biggest and best kit right now it's
going to be a sample making collection I
got it pulled up right here it's going
to be called the full circle collection
and it's going to have three individual
libraries in it the phrases and
percussion Library pianos and ke library
and the sense and strings Library don't
worry the three libraries are also going
to be sold individually but if you
decide to uh to purchase the bundle the
the full collection it's going to also
come with some bonuses uh I got one
bonus finished and it's a sample library
right here and this sample that I'm
going to be arranging today it's also in
that sample Library this one right here
so with 90% of my Beats I will start out
with the sample and arrange it before I
lay down the drum so I lay down the
sample like like this as I did right
here in the a bars then I copy it over
arrange it then L the drums down cuz in
my opinion you get a better image of
what the beat is going to sound like if
you arrange the melody first instead of
just looping it a bars eight bars eight
bars and just laying down the jumps like
that it's way better to do it when it
range in the melody first before I
rrange the Melody I always like to add
one more step to it might be because of
my workflow might be because I like to
organize but I always like to rename
every single track like I said just to
keep things organized so that's what I'm
going to do real quick I'm going to
listen to the individual tracks like
this I'm call that vintage piano
[Music]
hot piano
notes
fing Bell accent that's it like I said
this helps to stay organized but it also
helps for an engineer let's say you
render out every single track and set it
over to an engineer to get it mixed uh
the engineer already got every single
track labeled you feel me so every
single individual stem you already got
the labels on it so it's way easier to
mix and know what it is and same goes
for the drums but I'll get into that
later first thing I always do when
arranging the Melody I always like to
copy it over a bunch of times you feel
me so I cut the first part out and the
first eight bars always dedicate that to
the intro and the first eight bars in
the intro you really want to catch the
listener's ear you feel me if you only
start out with some boring sounds in the
intro a listener will probably click off
and listen to another beat or another
song so I always like to have the most
interesting parts of the sample uh being
played in the first a bars in the intro
now for this sample I think the piano
sounds
cool maybe with the
flute bringing this
accent the high piano notes
it already introduces 1 2 3 four sounds
you feel me but you also want to make
sure that you don't introduce all the
sounds already keep it organized I'm
going add these labels to it re intro
and right here after the intro I always
like to get into the uh the hook so
right now I got a eight bar intro but
you can also have a 16 Bar intro for
example let's say you add a subbase to
the sample you can uh let the subbase
come in right here at the second part of
the intro kind of builds a little bit
more tension but for this melody I think
it's right to have eight bars as an
intro so after the intro you get into
the hook and that's usually the most
catchy part of a song like where the
artist really lays down a catchy part
they get stuck in the listener's head
you feel me so when it RS in the hook I
always like to have my hook uh set to 16
bars so that's two more copies of the
intro right here these are just
guidelines you feel me like you can have
your hook set to eight bars if you want
to like there's no rules and when it
rains in the hook I always like to go
from top to bottom so I'm going start
out with the piano and think if I want
to use the piano in the hook and in my
opinion since the piano is the coolest
strongest part in in this sample I'm
just copi it over throughout the 16 bars
and just have the piano play throughout
the whole hook it's kind of switch it up
in the first eight bars I think I want
to bring in the violin since I didn't
use the violin in the intro so just
going to switch it up a little
bit just introduces a new sound you feel
me and I think that's going to be all
the sounds that I introduced in the
first eight bars I'm going to introduce
some more in the second a bars to kind
of build it up a little bit and for the
second a bars I'm going introduce the
high piano notes the flute I'mma also
copy over the violin introduce the
strings and bring back this uh Bell
accent uh just to kind of build it up
like I said and don't just follow what
I'm doing cuz with some samples it would
get too busy if you just got all the
Melodies playing uh but in this melody I
left a lot of pockets so for example
right here only the violin is playing
right here only the flute is playing and
right here only the piano notes are
playing there still some gaps still some
room for the drums you feel me so now
that the hook is done right here I'mma
cut these parts out uh and I'm going
start out on the verse right here and
for the people who don't know what a
verse is an artist usually uh uses the
verse to really get some lyrics across
so for the verse I'm have it set to 16
bars as well but it really depends on
what kind of artist you're sending the
Beats to if you're working with a very
lyrical artist you want to have a longer
verse but if you're working with a more
melodic artist you want to have a longer
hook but 16 Bar hook and 16 Bar verse is
always a safe route so I'm going to copy
the piano over like this since I like
how the piano sounds is the main Melody
of the of the sample and for the other
Melodies In the verse uh I kind of do
the opposite as I did in the hook I
always like to start out a little bit
more busy in the first a bars of the
verse and then uh get it a little bit
less busy in the second a bars so I know
that in the last a bars of the verse uh
I want to leave a lot of space for the
artist so I'm just going to have the
piano playing but for the first eight
bars I'm going introduce the high piano
notes uh let's go for the strings as
well really transitions
nicely just a
piano that's it for the verse so after
the verse you could decide to bring the
hook back in or extend the verse a
little bit but a thing that I always
like to do is add a little brids to it
like where everything kind of slows down
a little bit to get into the hook and
this is going to be eight bars just a
moment without drums only the melody
playing where everything kind of slows
down like I said for that bridge of
course I'm going to have the piano
playing let's bring the strings back in
the
flute like this leave the violin out uh
to kind of do the same as we did in the
intro so the violin comes back into the
hook kind of introduces something new
and what we got right here in front of
us is really the blueprint of the entire
beat like we going to arrange the drums
based on this so we can cut this part
out and uh duplicate it over how many
times we want depending on uh how long
we want the beat to be so I'm going just
leave it like this and after laying down
the drums we can uh copy it over like I
said so after that we can get into the
drum Arrangement and before arranging
the drums once again to stay organized I
always like to kind of organize your
jump sounds a little bit think of an
order that works well for you I always
like to have my ad weights on top next
highest snare clap open hats and then
some percussion at the bottom right here
so I'm going to drag it into the
playlist next I'm going copy it over
like this and uh we're going to go from
top to bottom once again starting with
the 8 thinking of uh where in the beat
you want your a8s to hit and we going go
from top to bottom like I said after
this beat we got two different a08
[Music]
patterns switch up right
here so I'm going think of where I want
the A8 to switch so I'm thinking since
we're already doing a lot with the
Melodies right here I'm going just keep
the AdAway simple uh just so it's not
too overwhelming and then at the second
part of the verse where it's only one
Melody I think I'm going to switch to
awe up there so like I said from top to
bottom 8way is done next I'm going to
get into the high hats and the
[Music]
snares these are essential so you just
want to leave them in uh throughout the
hook and the verse uh you could do
different but I just like to have the
higher and the snare playing throughout
the entire beat since in my opinion it's
an essential sound so lastly for the
open hats and the counter snares you
really want to do the same as I did with
the melody right here really want the
hook to be the the busiest part of your
uh of your beat and the verse uh be the
least busy part of your beat so I'm
going to do the same uh to these open
hats and counter snares so for the open
hats we got two different
[Music]
ones so I'm going to keep this main open
hat playing throughout the entire Hook
and the first eight bars of the first uh
this open app right here I'm going just
have it play in the second part of the
hook this is the busiest part part of
the beat and for the counter snare uh I
want to introduce that in the second
part of the hook as well so for the drum
Arrangement that is pretty much it I
always like to separate it a little bit
from the melody just to keep it
organized once again so now that we
arrange the sample at the jums we can
get into the most fun part of arranging
the beat what really makes the
arrangement stand out from other beats
and that is uh chopping the patterns up
with this slice to right here and you
can really go crazy with chopping [__]
up you can chop these edts out right
here cut out the high hat I think I'm
going to cut up the highest right
here right here chop it up
[Music]
really brings back more energy you feel
me do the same right
here yeah that's hard next for the
second part of the hook you can add all
sorts of transitions Rises and all that
[__] but in my opinion chopping [__] up
just works way better and for the second
part of the hook like I said I think
I'mma cut the highs out at the last part
cut the 88
out really lets The Listener know or the
artist know that a transition is coming
up you feel me and for the beginning of
the verse I was like like to cut the
AdAway out of the first
part cut the heights out as
well feel me has a lot more bounce to
it
yeah sounds a lot better than just
bringing the 0 weight and the high back
in like at the beginning do the same
right here CU this high it's
[Music]
out have it switch
up it's tough it make this same cut
right
here yeah got the snare
[Music]
out cut the snare out as well right here
and after chopping everything up you can
decide how long you want your beat to be
uh so you can have your beat be 1 minute
and 12 seconds or 20 minutes for example
I wouldn't really recommend going over
three minutes cuz most of the time when
I send out beats that are over three
minutes the artist usually cuts a beat
short so I would stick to 2 minutes 15
and that's fairly simple just copy
everything over like
[Music]
this and that is 2 minutes or 12 that's
perfect and the last eight bars of the
beat right here are usually dedicated to
the outro so you could decide just to
have it play like this maybe switch it
up a little bit just have the piano
play or you can decide to bring the
drums in once again like
this for the outro I always like to just
have the melody playing by itself just
kind of faded out so add the strings to
it it's very calm like a calm outro
that's it and if you made it to this
part of R your beat that's pretty much
99% done you feel me like 99% of the
time when I laid out a beat like this I
just render it out and that's it but of
course if you want to add transitions
risers uh tape stops all that [__] to it
this is the time you do that for example
you can add a transition right
[Music]
here from the hook to the verse um from
the verse to the bridge kind of enhances
the transition a little bit uh I don't
really do this too often but it's up to
y'all man to experiment with tape stops
risers transitions Cuts all that [__]
and that's pretty much it for the uh for
the updated Arrangement tutorial man and
to the people who were still struggling
with arranging their beats before
watching this video I hope this video
helped yall out man uh if it did make
sure to let me know in the comments down
below I read every single comment and
just like this video if you have any
future video ideas or things you want to
see me do on the channel also make sure
to let me know in the comments down
below want to thank you for watching the
video all the way to the end we're this
close on hitting 37k on the channel so
don't forget to subscribe follow me on
Instagram like the video all that stuff
like the jum kids that I use in today's
video make sure to check it out I'm
going have it link down the first link
down in the description and that's uh
that's pretty much all I have today's
video man so I'm going catch you on the
next one I'm
[Music]
out